##Delete Node in a Linked List

Write a function to delete a node (except the tail) in a singly linked list, given only access to that node.

Supposed the linked list is `1 -> 2 -> 3 -> 4` and you are given the third node with value `3`, the linked list should become `1 -> 2 -> 4` after calling your function.



**Method**: Figure it out by replacing field member of target node to be deleted by the next node.

**Time Complexity**: ${O(1)}$

**Space Complexity**: ${O(1)}$

**Visualization**:

​       node     next

​           |          |

a   ->   b   ->   c

​       node

​            |

a   ->   c



```java
class Solution {
    /**
     * @param node: the node in the list should be deleted
     * @return: nothing
     */
    public void deleteNode(ListNode node) {
        // edge cases: either node or next node is null
        if (node == null || node.next == null) {
            return;
        }
        
        // get next node 
        ListNode next = node.next;
        // replace target node by next node
        node.val = next.val;
        node.next = next.next;
    }
}
```



**Note**:

**Comment 1**

However, this question is INCORRECT for sure, since you don't really "delete" a node, you are replacing the value. In fact, this is a terrible design leading to memory leaks almost for sure.

I wonder what company gives such misleading question. It's better called "modify" a node, instead of "deleting". Deleting means free the memory, and the incorrect description will mislead any person with slight experience on C++.

**Comment 2**

Because this question encourages us to use **awkward method** or **dummy "skills"** to solve it, which deviates the general principles for linked list manipulations. When we are asked to solve questions related to linked list, <u>it is widely accepted to just use just node operations and it is not allowed to change node's value</u>. If the values of nodes are allowed to be changed, will it make sense to call this problem related to linked list? If values are allowed to be changed, why don't we solve it in the form of arrays?